# Basic-Spam-Detector
  This project shows how to build a rudimentary spam detector. With NLP and vectorization, a message can be analyzed by a computer to determine if it is spam or not with high accuracy. 
  The data was imported and encoded in “Latin”. Next the unnamed columns were dropped, and the first two columns were renamed “target” and “message”. Next, the data was checked for missing values, of which there were none. Duplicate messages were dropped and only the first were kept. 
	The preprocessing was done with one function. Stopwords are set to English. The text is made lowercase and then it is tokenized. Next, an empty list is created and then populated with all the alpha numeric words. The list is then saved as the variable “words” so the list can be cleared and then repopulated in the next step. The next step is to populate the list again with words that are English. Finally, using the PorterStemmer the text is stemmed and the words in the list are joined. The function was then tested and applied to the text data. A new column in the data-frame was made with the processed data and was called “processed_text”.
	After the data has been preprocessed it has to be vectorized. Sklearn’s tfidfVectorizer was used for this and set to the variable X. the target data was set to the variable y. Next the data was split into training and testing data for both X and y with skearn’s train_test_split function the test set was set to 20% of the data. The algorithms used were GaussianNB, MultinomialNB and BernulliNB. The BernulliNB algorithm had the best result with a 98.5%  accuracy. 
	

